You've learned about
gradient descents about
multiple linear regression
and also vectorization.
Let's put it all together to
implement gradient descent for
multiple linear regression with
vectorization. This
would be cool.
Let's quickly review what
multiple linear
regression look like.
Using our previous notation,
let's see how you
can write it more
succinctly using
vector notation.
We have parameters w_1
to w_n as well as b.
But instead of thinking of
w_1 to w_n as separate numbers,
that is separate parameters,
let's start to collect
all of the w's into
a vector w so that now w is
a vector of length n.
We're just going to think
of the parameters of
this model as a vector w,
as well as b,
where b is still a
number same as before.
Whereas before we had to find
multiple linear
regression like this,
now using vector notation,
we can write the model as f_w,
b of x equals the vector
w dot product with the
vector x plus b.
Remember that this dot
here means.product.
Our cost function
can be defined as J
of w_1 through w_n, b.
But instead of just thinking
of J as a function of these
and different parameters
w_j as well as b,
we're going to write
J as a function of
parameter vector w
and the number b.
This w_1 through w_n is
replaced by this vector W and
J now takes this input of
vector w and a number b
and returns a number.
Here's what gradient
descent looks like.
We're going to repeatedly
update each parameter w_j to
be w_j minus Alpha times the
derivative of the cost J,
where J has parameters
w_1 through w_n and b.
Once again, we just
write this as J
of vector w and number b.
Let's see what this looks
like when you implement
gradient descent
and in particular,
let's take a look at
the derivative term.
We'll see that gradient descent
becomes just a little bit
different with multiple features
compared to just one feature.
Here's what we had when we had
gradient descent
with one feature.
We had an update rule for w and
a separate update rule
for b. Hopefully,
these look familiar to you.
This term here is the derivative
of the cost function J
with respect to the
parameter w. Similarly,
we have an update
rule for parameter b,
with univariate regression,
we had only one feature.
We call that feature xi
without any subscript.
Now, here's a new notation
for where we have n features,
where n is two or more.
We get this update rule
for gradient descent.
Update w_1 to be w_1 minus
Alpha times this expression here
and this formula is actually
the derivative of the cost
J with respect to w_1.
The formula for
the derivative of
J with respect to w_1 on
the right looks very similar to
the case of one
feature on the left.
The error term still takes
a prediction f of x
minus the target y.
One difference is that
w and x are now vectors
and just as w on the left
has now become w_1
here on the right,
xi here on the left is
now instead xi _1 here on
the right and this is
just for J equals 1.
For multiple linear regression,
we have J ranging
from 1 through n and
so we'll update the
parameters w_1,
w_2, all the way up to w_n,
and then as before,
we'll update b.
If you implement this,
you get gradient descent
for multiple regression.
That's it for gradient descent
Before moving on
from this video,
I want to make a quick aside
or a quick side note on
an alternative way for finding
w and b for linear regression.
This method is called
the normal equation.
Whereas it turns out gradient
descent is a great method
for minimizing the cost
function J to find w and b,
there is one other
algorithm that works only
for linear regression
and pretty much none of
the other algorithms you
see in this specialization
for solving for w and b
and this other
method does not need
an iterative gradient
descent algorithm.
Called the normal
equation method,
it turns out to be
possible to use
an advanced linear algebra
library to just solve for
w and b all in one goal
without iterations.
Some disadvantages of the
normal equation method are;
first unlike gradient descent,
this is not generalized to
other learning algorithms,
such as the logistic
regression algorithm
that you'll learn
about next week
or the neural networks or
other algorithms you see
later in this specialization.
The normal equation
method is also quite
slow if the number of
features and this large.
Almost no machine learning
practitioners should implement
the normal equation method
themselves but if you're using
a mature machine learning
library and call
linear regression,
there is a chance
that on the backend,
it'll be using this
to solve for w and b.
If you're ever in
the job interview
and hear the term
normal equation,
that's what this refers to.
Don't worry about
the details of how
the normal equation works.
Just be aware that some
machine learning libraries
may use this complicated method
in the back-end to
solve for w and b.
But for most
learning algorithms,
including how you implement
linear regression yourself,
gradient descents offer a
better way to get the job done.
In the optional lab that
follows this video,
you'll see how to define a
multiple regression model
encode and also how to calculate
the prediction f of x.
You'll also see how to
calculate the cost and
implement gradient descent for
a multiple linear
regression model.
This will be using
Python's NumPy library.
If any of the code
looks very new,
that's okay but you
should feel free
also to take a look at the
previous optional lab that
introduces NumPy and
vectorization for a refresher
of NumPy functions and how
to implement those in code.
That's it. You now know
multiple linear regression.
This is probably the
single most widely used
learning algorithm in the
world today. But there's more.
With just a few tricks such
as picking and scaling features
appropriately and also choosing
the learning rate
alpha appropriately,
you'd really make this
work much better.
Just a few more videos
to go for this week.
Let's go on to the next video
to see those little
tricks that will
help you make multiple linear
regression work much better.